This is the first of two hands
on exercises involving CSV Data.
In this exercise, we will import
a CSV file into a spreadsheet and
make a simple plot.
We will begin by opening a terminal window
and looking at a CSV file in the terminal.
Next, we will start
the spreadsheet application and
import the CSV data into the spreadsheet.
We can then look at the rows and columns
of the CSV file and make a simple plot.
Let's begin, first,
open a terminal shell by
clicking on the black terminal
icon at the top of the toolbar.
Next, let's cd into the directory
containing the CSV data.
We'll run cd space
Download/big-data-2/csv.
We can run ls to
see the CSV files.
The file census.csv contains
census data for the United States.
We can run the command more census.csv
to see the contents of this file.
The first line of this file is the header
with the columns separated by commas.
You can go down in
the file by hitting space.
Hit Q to quit more.
Next, let's start
a spreadsheet application.
We run oocalc to start this.
We can import the census
data CSV file into
the spreadsheet by going to File > Open.
Clicking on downloads.
Big Data 2, CSV, census.csv.
In this dialog click OK.
You can see into this spreadsheet,
import of the CSV data to
a bunch of rows and columns.
Each column that was separated
by a comma in the CSV file,
is a column in the spreadsheet.
We can see that our CSV file
was successfully imported into
the spreadsheet.
If we scroll down to
the bottom of the spreadsheet,
we can see how many rows
there were in the CSV file.
There are 3194 rows in the CSV file.
If this file instead had millions or
10 millions of rows,
then we would have to use a big
data system such as Hadoop or HDFS.
Let's scroll back to the top.
Next, let's make a simple plot of
some of the data in the CSV file.
Let's plot the population estimates for
several years for the state of Alabama.
The state of Alabama is
given in the second row and
the population estimates
are given in these columns.
Let's select J through O,
so you get the population
estimate for 2010 through 2015.
We can create a plot of these values
by clicking on the Chart button.
And clicking finish.
In the second hands on for CSV data,
we'll perform some filtering and
some aggregate operations over the data.